My name is Daniel Josley… I am Lokaa Dine (Reed People), Born for Toahani (Near The Water), My maternal grandfather is Tobaahi (Edge Water) and My paternal grandfather is Ta'chiin'nii (Red Running into Water).  

 

I was born in Tuba City Arizona at 12:28pm on June 3rd 1987. I was raised in Shonto Arizona by my grandparents John and Betty Josley. My mother Linda Josley had three children… I am the youngest out of those three children. I have an older brother and sister. I am a husband and a father of 5 amazing children, 4 boys and 1 girl. 

Growing up I was always artistic, it came naturally to me. I never thought it would become my passion. I absolutely enjoy creating my own works of art. It started out as a simple painting of my grandfather. As I started to experiment more and more, that simple painting turned into my very own master pieces. I didn’t study or go to school for painting, the only class I took was back in high school. I am a self-taught artist. Each painting I create is unique in its own way. With each painting, I have created my own technique in which I am known for. 

I have been painting for 3 years now and I absolutely love what I do. When I started out I use to buy my own canvases, but as the months went by I started to make my own canvases. I like to make my art unique, a one of a kind, so I started to experiment with how I make my canvases and I came up with some unique shapes and sizes.

Since that day I've painted things I didn't know I could paint, different styles I found so amazing. Became a member of groups I didn't know would welcome someone like me in. So as of today I am a member of The Art of the People who have embraced me and helped me with being known and promoting me as Artist of the year for Shonto's Rock the Canyon 2019. The Painted Desert Project where I got the chance to work with Mural Artists from all over who taught me the steps to outdoor creations. An experience I would hold dearly and always remember, an Assistant to Shonto Begay on his Art camping trips with NAU.

Words of wisdom that I take in every time I pick up a brush. Every mistake is an eye opener and a new direction. Respect the brush and everything will follow. Tomorrow is the beginning of the rest of my life. Respect your elders and teach with passion.
